The President: Today, I
want to take a few minutes
to speak with you-directly
and clearly-about Ebola:
what we're doing about it,
and what you need to know.
Because meeting a
public health challenge
like this isn't just
a job for government.
All of us-citizens,
leaders, the media-have
a responsibility
and a role to play.
This is a serious disease, but
we can't give in to hysteria
or fear-because that only
makes it harder to get
people the accurate
information they need.
We have to be guided
by the science.
We have to remember
the basic facts.
First, what we're seeing
now is not an "outbreak"
or an "epidemic" of
Ebola in America.
We're a nation of more
than 300 million people.
To date, we've seen three
cases of Ebola diagnosed here -
the man who contracted
the disease in Liberia,
came here and sadly died; the
two courageous nurses who
were infected while
they were treating him.
Our thoughts and our
prayers are with them,
and we're doing everything
we can to give them
the best care possible.
Now, even one
infection is too many.
At the same time, we have to
keep this in perspective.
As our public health
experts point out,
every year thousands of
Americans die from the flu.
Second, Ebola is actually a
difficult disease to catch.
It's not transmitted through
the air like the flu.
You cannot get it from just
riding on a plane or a bus.
The only way that a person
can contract the disease
is by coming into direct
contact with the bodily fluids
of somebody who is
already showing symptoms.
I've met and hugged
some of the doctors
and nurses who've
treated Ebola patients.
I've met with an Ebola
patient who recovered,
right in the
Oval Office.
And I'm fine.
Third, we know how to
fight this disease.
We know the protocols.
And we know that when
they're followed, they work.
So far, five Americans who
got infected with Ebola
in West Africa have
been brought back
to the United States-and
all five have been treated
safely, without infecting
healthcare workers.
And this week,
at my direction,
we're stepping
up our efforts.
Additional CDC personnel
are on the scene
in Dallas and Cleveland.
We're working quickly to track
and monitor anyone who may
have been in close contact
with someone showing symptoms.
We're sharing lessons
learned so other hospitals
don't repeat the mistakes
that happened in Dallas.
The CDC's new Ebola rapid
response teams will deploy
quickly to help hospitals
implement the right protocols.
New screening measures are
now in place at airports
that receive nearly all
passengers arriving
from Liberia, Guinea
and Sierra Leone.
And we'll continue to
constantly review our measures,
and update them as needed,
to make sure we're
doing everything we can
to keep Americans safe.
Finally, we can't just
cut ourselves off from
West Africa, where this
disease is raging.
Our medical experts tell us
that the best way to stop this
disease is to stop it at its
source-before it spreads
even wider and becomes even
more difficult to contain.
Trying to seal off an entire
region of the world-if that were
even possible-could actually
make the situation worse.
It would make it harder
to move health workers
and supplies
back and forth.
Experience shows that it
could also cause people
in the affected region to
change their travel, to evade
screening, and make the
disease even harder to track.
So the United States will
continue to help lead
the global response
in West Africa.
Because if we want to protect
Americans from Ebola here
at home, we have to
end it over there.
And as our civilian and military
personnel serve in the region,
their safety and health
will remain a top priority.
As I've said before, fighting
this disease will take time.
Before this is over, we may
see more isolated cases
here in America.
But we know how to
wage this fight.
And if we take the steps
that are necessary,
if we're guided by the
science-the facts,
not fear-then I am absolutely
confident that we can prevent
a serious outbreak here
in the United States,
and we can continue to lead the
world in this urgent effort.